Description of the proposed system
We are all on a fitness journey in one way or another. With life’s hectic schedule, it’s easy to
lose track of where you are and where you want to be regarding your fitness. No matter
whether you are trying to lose weight, put on mass, or maintain where you are, tracking
fitness progress is an essential piece of your ongoing success. I have been asked by the
owner of ToKa Fitness to develop a digital system that will:
● provide information about fitness training
● provide information on healthy living to help customers improve their own health
and fitness
● provide access to digital content to support customers with their training
● provide access to digital content on healthy lifestyle
● encourage existing customers who have access to digital devices to use more of the
services provided by ToKa Fitness.
ToKa fitness would like to help its customer track every single workout, all gains, and all
food consumed in their fitness journey. These are some of the reasons mentioned during
the interviews.
• People have extremely busy time schedules and it is hard for them to find slots to fit
in running or other forms of workout.
• Lack of motivation is another significant reason.
• Finding people with similar goals is extremely difficult, and mostly people end up
with inactive or overactive company, if found at all, which does not serve as an
effective motivation booster. Not being able to track your progress is a huge
roadblock in many cases.
• No proper schedule to be followed, sometimes you have the time but don’t know
how much and how to go about it.
• What’s more, after a formidable exercise, people would get lazy or bored without
any rewards or recognition. Expensive tracking and other health monitoring gadgets
leave the interested people with either a big credit or without any equipment.
• Complex user interfaces and systems.
• No real data on the systems, only web fed data.
• Very little or no data analysis, as to how many calories burnt, how much time to run
to improve stamina.
• No simple helpful application.
For those who log and track their progress regularly, maybe using paper or some way of
recording, by using some form of electronic tracking system they would achieve some of
the following aims:
• Makes it more likely to reach and surpass their goal.
• Allows them to be more efficient in time and workouts.
• Lends accountability to themselves and their goals.
• Allows for easier modifications and shows when and where changes need to be
made.
• It can be motivating and reinforcing to remind them why you are doing what you
are.
• Keeps you committed to their plan.
This project lends itself to a computational approach, partly because of the convenience of
tracking details on the website after a workout (removing the need to carry pen and paper,
and allowing users to track the details immediately, reducing the risk of errors), and partly
because a computational solution will allow automatic progress tracking as it can
automatically calculate and display your progress from the previous input data. This will
make users’ gym progress much easier and provide them with details of their progress,
which would be very difficult and time-consuming to recalculate themselves every week.
The key performance indicators (KPIs) and user acceptance criteria for the proposed ToKa
Fitness offers personal training sessions and advice on fitness training and healthy living to
its customers and would like a website for their specific requirements. ToKa Fitness’s
specific requirements are that the proposed solution:
• Must have a membership system that allows the user to access extra content.
• Must allow clients to add new content without touching the code.
• Must be compatible with various devices, such as a desktop, a tablet and a
smartphone.
• Should have different page layouts based on the user (e.g. client can add content,
but members can only watch content).
• The layout should be simple and easy to navigate, so information should be diluted
across the page (no clutter to confuse the user). Also, text information should be
balanced with images and other media.
• Could use external services to provide content (e.g. use YouTube to display free
videos).
• Could add advertisements to monetise the free content without making the user
pay.
The system was split into sub systems that interact among each other or with the user.
The interaction between the various components will be elaborated on in later
sections. The system can be seen to have six components that work in unison to
produce the results that help the user the best results.
• Mobile interface
• Web interface
• Database
• Location data acquisition
• Accelerometer data collection and analysis
14
• Profile monitoring
For the purpose of this project we will produce the first prototype, which will be the web
interface.
The website can be accessed via a mobile device or a desktop computer and will have the
following functionality.
Non-functional requirement is used to specify the criteria forsystem operation, which
should be in contrast to functional requirement that define specific behaviours and
function. In order to clarify software quality attributes, we will use the FURPS model. FURPS
is an acronym for functionality, usability, reliability, performance and supportability, which
is founded at Hewlett-Packard and elaborated by Grady and Caswell.
Usability is used to determine the ease of using and learning for human-made objects.
First, we use PHP, JavaScript and SQL as our developing platform, which is accessible and
widely used. Secondly, to make our software and website easy to use, user interface design
would play a very important role. User design should make information more accessible for
the user, such as a help option can be found at once when the customer encounters some
problems, a traceable history for users to review their progress in previous periods in their
account
Reliability is defined by the system’s availability and how long it will take to recover from a
failure. It is very important to our program, since our system is based on a huge amount of
data. If failure occurs, it always accrues loss of data. In order to maintain high reliability, we
should try our best to keep a low appearance of error in our system, and, also, if a failure
is encountered, the system should have the ability to figure it out, send it to the
programmer and then reset giving a reasonable explanation to t users. Performance is
closely related to how fast our system can perform. As the user is training, they may want
to know calories burnt
Supportability includes a variety of elements, such as maintainability, sustainability,
testability and so on. As requirements above, we should make our program easier to use,
not only for users, but also for people who want to modify it or add new functionality to it.
In order to make sure that code can be fixed and reused easily, we should separate the
whole system into several independent functions. In terms of several independent parts,
people can find the main problem more quickly and rewrite the part with a problem
without changing others, which will save a lot of time and manual work. Based on the
above abstract information a more discrete set of requirements can be tabulated as
follows