ToKa Fitness has commissioned my software development company to develop a digital
system. ToKa Fitness offers personal training sessions and advice on fitness training and
healthy living to its customers and would like a website for their specific requirements.
ToKa Fitness specific requirements are that the proposed solution:
● has free access with some accessibility to services
● customer section for paid content to access full services
● accessibility features for users with sight loss
● link to ‘social media’ features
● ability to view graphs and daily statistics for monitoring
● visualisation of the data to help users easily understand patterns.
The target user group is adults, male and females. Due to the legal and ethical nature of
websites, it might be difficult for under 18s to follow the exercise and enter the correct
details and follow the food and recipes correctly. To comply with age restrictions and
guidelines, clear advice will be given to reduce health issues or injuries.
The website will be accessed via mobile devices and a computer and have compatibility
across different devices, Android and iOS. It is important that the website is easy to use
with on screen guidance and prompts so that the user experience is excellent in all areas of
the website to promote company image, for example using website appropriate highquality visual assets and content. All areas of the website will comply with relevant legal
regulations and guidelines.
The customer area will be secure and accessed via a password and payment made in a
secure platform. This will comply with legal requirements. The privacy and security of user
data is important for each member to have access to their area via a secure login.
Each customer will be able to customise workout and eating plans and generate a report
on their progress for specific periods, and the level of detail of instructions in a fitness
training plan will vary to allow the customer to meet their identified goal.
All links to external sources will take consideration of copyright and intellectual property
and licensing requirements.
Functional Requirements
No. Features Priority Justification
1 Users are able to sign up
and create profiles with a
username and password
HIGH
This will allow many different features to
work, such as the booking process, as
this will allow the tutor to know who has
booked the session and will allow the
user to access the videos they have paid
for
on any device as cookies cannot transfer
on all the devices the person has.
2
Users are able to log in to
their own profile HIGH
Important that the user can view their
own profile details.
3 Users can view the
dashboard
HIGH This will allow the tutor to upload their
timetable so that students can choose
which slot they want without waiting for
the tutor to confirm if they are free or
not.
24
4 The system should contain
information about the
calories, weight, carbs
intake, fat intake, exercise
regime
HIGH This will ensure that client will trust the
organisation and make the website
more reliable.
5 Users are able to pay
online
for membership
MEDIUM This will allow the payment process to
be much easier and less manual, which
means there can be no altercation in the
student not paying as it will all be
recorded.
6 The system should be able
to send payment
confirmation to the user
MEDIUM This will act as a receipt for the payment
to the gym user and client.
7 System should have user
form authentication
HIGH This is to ensure that the user does have
the email address and verifies the ID.
8 System should send a
confirmation email once
signed up
LOW This will make sure that the client has all
the details for signing up.
9 New system should have a
blog or forum
MEDIUM This will allow the user to raise questions
and communicate with others gym
members.
10 Historical data to show
trends
MEDIUM Important to generate a report that allow
the gym user to view historical data and
demonstrate progression.
12 External interface HIGH The gym user should be able to view the
website on any device that allow them to
see all the relevant information and
perform any functionality.
Non-functional Requirements
No. Features Priority Justification
1 The system should be reliable HIGH This will mean that it is more
trusted, which will mean more
people will use the service.
2 The system should be accessible by
everyone
HIGH This will mean that anyone can
access the service, which will
mean that the service will be
advertised to more people.
3 The system should be secure HIGH This will help users trust the
service as they will be using their
payment information on the
website.
4 The system should be available at all
times
HIGH If this was not the case it would
mean less people would buy the
service as they cannot access it
5 PHP sessions should make the
website customised to the user
MEDIUM This will make it more customised
to the user as it could be used for
a faster login and it would be
more personalised to the user. 